docs(grid): Add KB for Grid min-width (#1941)
telerik/blazor-docs: knowledge-base/grid-kb-specific-width.md

---

> title: Horizontal Grid Scrolling without Column Width

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Horizontal Grid Scrolling without Column Widths
```

> description: How to Avoid Shrink or Disappear of Grid Columns and Get Horizontal Scrollbar?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: How to avoid shrinking or disappearing of Grid columns that have no column widths? How to get a horizontal scrollbar when the Grid columns have no widths?
```

type: how-to

> page_title: Getting Horizontal Scrollbar and Not Losing Grid Columns

Reviewer: ```suggestion
page_title: How to Get Horizontal Scrollbar With no Grid Column Widths
```

> slug: grid-kb-specific-width

Reviewer: ```suggestion
slug: grid-kb-horizontal-scrolling-no-column-widths
```

position:
tags: telerik, blazor, grid, column, css
ticketid: 1588667, 1576220, 1615618
res_type: kb
---

## Environment

<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Product</td>

>       <td>Grid for Blazor</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      <td>Grid for Blazor, <br /> TreeList for Blazor</td>
```

    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Description

> This knowledge base article gives solution to the the following scenarios:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This knowledge base article gives solution to the following scenarios:
```

> 1\. Scenario 1:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * Some of the Grid Columns have `Width`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Some of the Grid columns have `Width`.
```

> * The Grid gets a horizontal scrollbar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> * The Columns without `Width` disappear or shrink when:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The columns without a `Width` shrink too much or disappear when:
```

>     * There are too many Columns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * There are too many columns.
```

>     * There are too many Columns.
>     * Some or all Columns `Width`s are too big.
>     * The browser viewport becomes too narrow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 2\. Scenario 2:
> * None of the Grid Columns have `Width`.
> * The Grid does not get a horizontal scrollbar.
> * There are a lot of Columns and they shrink too much.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> How can we keep the above implementations and:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How to keep the above column `Width` configuration and:

```

> * The Columns without `Width` not to disapear or shrink.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The width-less columns remain visible and do not shrink or disappear.
```

* Get a horizontal Grid scrollbar.

## Solution

> Use the Grid's [`Class` parameter]({%slug grid-overview%}#grid-parameters) to set a custom CSS style. Set the `min-width` style for the Grid Tables. The `min-width` should be more than the sum of the all set Column [`Width` s]({%slug grid-columns-width%}). The width-less N number of Columns will receive 1/N of the remaining space. So if you set enough `min-width` this will ensure the width-less Columns do not disappear or shrink and you will get a horizontal Grid scrollbar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Use the Grid's [`Class` parameter]({%slug grid-overview%}#grid-parameters) to set a custom CSS class.
1. Set a `min-width` style for the Grid table elements through the custom CSS class. The `min-width` value must be greater than the sum of the all set column [`Width`s]({%slug grid-columns-width%}).
1. The width-less N number of columns will receive 1/N of the remaining space. A large-enough `min-width` value will ensure that the width-less columns remain visible and wide enough. The Grid will show a horizontal scrollbar when its width is less than the table `min-width`.
```

````CSHTML
<TelerikGrid Data="@GridData"
             Class="grid-min-width"
             Height="400px">
    <GridColumns>
        <GridColumn Field="@nameof(Product.Name)" Title="Product Name" Width="200px" />
        <GridColumn Field="@nameof(Product.Price)" DisplayFormat="{0:C2}" />
        <GridColumn Field="@nameof(Product.Released)" DisplayFormat="{0:D}" />
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

<style>

>     .grid-min-width .k-table {
>         min-width: 600px;
>     }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    .grid-min-width .k-table {
        min-width: 600px;
    }
    /* optional - reset the min-width for detail Grids */
    .grid-min-width .k-table .k-table {
        min-width: auto;
    }
```

</style>

@code {
    private List<Product> GridData { get; set; } = new();

    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        var rnd = new Random();

        for (int i = 1; i <= 30; i++)
        {
            GridData.Add(new Product
            {
                Id = i,
                Name = "Product name " + i,
                Price = (decimal)(rnd.Next(1, 50) * 3.14),
                Released = DateTime.Now.AddDays(-rnd.Next(1, 365)).AddYears(-rnd.Next(1, 10)),
            });
        }

        base.OnInitialized();
    }

    public class Product
    {
        public int Id { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; } = string.Empty;
        public decimal Price { get; set; }
        public DateTime Released { get; set; }
    }
}
````

> ## Notes
> 
> If you have hierarchy, the style will apply to the detail tables as well. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## See Also

* [Grid column width behavior]({%slug grid-columns-width%})
```

---

> title: Grid Column specific Width

Reviewer: Consider "Horizontal Grid Scrolling without Column Widths"

description: How to distribute the available Grid Width to some columns only? 
type: how-to
page_title: Available Grid Width distributed to some Columns
slug: grid-kb-specific-width
position: 

> tags: telerik, blazor, grid, column, width

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tags: telerik, blazor, grid, column, css
```

ticketid: 1635964
res_type: kb
---

## Environment

<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Product</td>
      <td>Grid for Blazor</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Description

How to modify the [Grid Column Width Behavior]({%slug grid-columns-width%}) in this case:

* When all column widths are explicitly set and the cumulative column width is less than the available Grid width, the remaining width is distributed evenly between all columns

so the remaining Grid `Width` to be distributed only to some columns, alternatively lock the `Width` for some columns?

## Solution

Here are three possible solutions:

1. You can leave the columns you are fine to grow without width.

>important Notes:
>
* If the cumulative width of columns with set widths is less than the available Grid width, the widths of the columns with a set width are respected and the remaining width is distributed evenly between the other columns.
* If the cumulative width of columns with set widths is more or near as size to the available Grid width, the columns without width will dissapear or shrink.

> 2\. Leave the columns you are fine to grow without width and set a `min-width` style for the Grid.

Reviewer: Remove this suggestion, as it can lead to double scrolling on the page

    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        GridData = new ();

        var rnd = new Random();

        for (int i = 1; i <= 30; i++)
        {
            GridData.Add(new Product
                {
                    Id = i,
                    Name = "Product name " + i,
                    Price = (decimal)(rnd.Next(1, 50) * 3.14),
                    Released = DateTime.Now.AddDays(-rnd.Next(1, 365)).AddYears(-rnd.Next(1, 10)).Date,
                });

        }

        base.OnInitialized();
    }

    private class Product
    {
        public int Id { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; } = string.Empty;
        public decimal Price { get; set; }
        public DateTime Released { get; set; }
    }
}
````

>important Notes:
>
* You may get a horizontal scrollbar on the page if the browser viewport is too narrow.
* The `min-width` style should be more than the sum of the all set column widths. The width-less N number of columns will receive 1/N of the remaining space.

3\. Leave the columns you are fine to grow without width and set a `min-width` style for the Grid Tables.

````CSHTML

> <TelerikGrid Data="@GridData"
>              Class="table-min-width">
>     <GridColumns>
>         <GridColumn Field="@nameof(Product.Name)" Title="Product Name" Width="400px" />
>         <GridColumn Field="@nameof(Product.Price)" DisplayFormat="{0:C2}" />
>         <GridColumn Field="@nameof(Product.Released)" DisplayFormat="{0:D}" />
>      </GridColumns>
> </TelerikGrid>
> 
> <style>
>     .table-min-width .k-table {
>         min-width: 900px;
>     }
> </style>
> 
> @code {
>     private List<Product> GridData { get; set; } = new ();
> 
>     protected override void OnInitialized()
>     {
>         GridData = new ();
> 
>         var rnd = new Random();
> 
>         for (int i = 1; i <= 30; i++)
>         {
>             GridData.Add(new Product
>                 {
>                     Id = i,
>                     Name = "Product name " + i,
>                     Price = (decimal)(rnd.Next(1, 50) * 3.14),
>                     Released = DateTime.Now.AddDays(-rnd.Next(1, 365)).AddYears(-rnd.Next(1, 10)).Date,
>                 });
>         }
> 
>         base.OnInitialized();
>     }
> 
>     private class Product
>     {
>         public int Id { get; set; }
>         public string Name { get; set; } = string.Empty;
>         public decimal Price { get; set; }
>         public DateTime Released { get; set; }
>     }
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<TelerikGrid Data="@GridData"
             Class="grid-min-width"
             Height="400px">
    <GridColumns>
        <GridColumn Field="@nameof(Product.Name)" Title="Product Name" Width="200px" />
        <GridColumn Field="@nameof(Product.Price)" DisplayFormat="{0:C2}" />
        <GridColumn Field="@nameof(Product.Released)" DisplayFormat="{0:D}" />
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

<style>
    .grid-min-width .k-table {
        min-width: 600px;
    }
</style>

@code {
    private List<Product> GridData { get; set; } = new();

    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        var rnd = new Random();

        for (int i = 1; i <= 30; i++)
        {
            GridData.Add(new Product
            {
                Id = i,
                Name = "Product name " + i,
                Price = (decimal)(rnd.Next(1, 50) * 3.14),
                Released = DateTime.Now.AddDays(-rnd.Next(1, 365)).AddYears(-rnd.Next(1, 10)),
            });
        }

        base.OnInitialized();
    }

    public class Product
    {
        public int Id { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; } = string.Empty;
        public decimal Price { get; set; }
        public DateTime Released { get; set; }
    }
}
```

````

>important Notes:
>
* You may get a horizontal scrollbar in the Grid if the browser viewport is too narrow.

> * If you have hierarchy, the style will apply to the detail tables as well.

Reviewer: .grid-min-width .k-table .k-table {
        min-width: auto;
    }
